Our potato procurement expert is in constant contact with our producers to ensure that the harvest meets our high quality standards.

In total, we source the best potatoes for our chips from over 300 Swiss farms.

We pay special attention to the careful selection of partner and supplier companies that deliver high-quality raw materials to us. Regionality and Swiss origin are important to us when sourcing our raw materials.

For the production of our chips, we need so-called processing potatoes with special variety characteristics such as high starch content and low content of reducing sugars. These properties are essential for frying at high temperatures and ensure the crispiness of the chips.

Due to year-round processing, potatoes with different growth rates and maturity times are required, as well as varieties that store well over the winter. Depending on the potato variety, the properties vary.

Potato Variety SH C 1010:** First grown in Switzerland four years ago, I am now considered the most important storage variety. I am also very high-yielding, making me very popular for cultivation.

Potato Variety LADY ROSETTA:** I mature early and boast a very good starch content.

Potato Variety PIROL:** I am perfect for processing in the autumn and winter months.

Potato Variety SORENTINA:** I store very well and mature rather late in the year. With my outstanding starch content, I am perfect for processing into your favorite chips.

Potato Variety LADY CLAIRE:** As an old noble lady, I don't like heat and drought. However, I boast good storage capability and optimal frying quality.

Potato Variety THALESSA:** I stand out for my very good storage capability and good starch content. I do not like dryness at all, which does not suit me.

Chips Processing Workflow: Spring of the Previous Year: Planning of the cultivation areas takes place.
Chips Processing Workflow: Summer of the Previous Year:** The cultivation of the cover crop begins. The soil must not lie fallow until the potatoes are planted.
Chips Processing Workflow: October of the Previous Year:** The varieties and quantities are defined. Then, the cultivation contract is concluded, and the seed potatoes are ordered.
Chips Processing Workflow: November of the Previous Year:** The farms receive the seed potatoes over the course of the winter.
Chips Processing Workflow: March:** The seed potatoes are pre-sprouted. This stimulates growth.
Chips Processing Workflow: April:** The precious chips potatoes are planted.
Chips Processing Workflow: May:** 2-3 weeks after planting, the final ridges are formed (these are the thick lines that run like a rake across the fields). The ridges prevent sunlight from hitting the potatoes and turning them green, as they would then be unprocessable.
Chips Processing Workflow: June:** The early potato harvest begins. These potatoes are immediately processed into chips.
Chips Processing Workflow: End of August:** The potato foliage must be destroyed so that the tubers form skins and become storable.
Chips Processing Workflow: Mid-September to October:** The main potato harvest takes place. The tubers are taken out of the ground and separated from earth and stones. Modern agricultural technology helps with the harvest, but a lot of manual labor is still needed today.
Chips Processing Workflow: Directly after the Main Harvest:** The potatoes must be quickly filled into wooden crates and ventilated to ensure storability.
Chips Processing Workflow: From October:** Storage. Storage temperatures of 8°C (instead of 4°C like conventional potatoes) prevent the potatoes from forming reducing sugars, which would then form acrylamide when frying.
Chips Processing Workflow: November to June of the Following Year:** Daily, potatoes are taken out of the main storage and delivered to Zweifel production in Spreitenbach.

The chips are fried with HOLL rapeseed oil from Switzerland. HOLL stands for "High Oleic Low Linolenic." This oil is characterized by a high content of oleic acid - a monounsaturated and therefore easily heatable fatty acid - and a reduced content of linoleic acid. The cultivation areas of HOLL rapeseed extend from Lake Geneva through the Jura to Lake Constance. While the rapeseed fields bloom from April to May, the rapeseed with the black seeds is only harvested in July.

We also rely on Swiss origin for salt and source our salt from Saline de Bex in the canton of Vaud. The employees of the saline are the last active miners in Switzerland. The salt mine in Bex can also be visited.

Production Process: During peak times, up to 150 tons of potatoes are delivered daily. Each batch undergoes a thorough incoming and quality control. Among other things, the starch content of the potatoes is measured. The starch content determines the cut thickness of the potatoes to ensure they are always crispy.
Production Process: The potatoes delivered in wooden palloxes are freed from soil and any stones brought from the field before being washed and polished.
Production Process: The potatoes are peeled for different lengths of time depending on the variety. The chips varieties KEZZ & Bio retain their peel.
Production Process: Using centrifugal force, the potatoes are pressed against the wall of the cutting baskets. This wall is equipped with 14 knives that cut the potatoes into slices.
Production Process: The potato slices are fried crispy for an average of about 3-4 minutes.
Production Process: Immediately after the fryer, the still-warm chips are seasoned, so the seasoning adheres best. In a year, we consume over 700 tons of spices and 30 tons of salt.
Production Process: The chips are packed into their respective bags via 9 packing machines – up to 80 bags per minute per machine. At this point, the origin of the potatoes is also imprinted.
Production Process: During peak times, about 1,350 pallets leave our warehouse per day – equivalent to about 50 trucks.

WHY IS THERE SOMETIMES SO MUCH AIR IN THE PACKAGE? The bags are filled by weight and not by volume, meaning the net weight must always match the information on the packaging. This is done with a multihead weigher that determines the target weight to the gram. Compliance with weight specifications is regularly checked by us and the authorities. Depending on the condition and starch content of the potatoes, the cut thickness of the chips can vary slightly. The size of the potatoes also varies. During transport, the chips can compress even more. All this can lead to visually different fill levels, even though they are correct by weight. Since our chips are a very fragile product, the air in the bag is important as it helps to protect the chips from breaking with a kind of "air cushion."

WHY DOES ZWEIFEL SOMETIMES USE FOREIGN POTATOES? Whenever possible, we process Swiss potatoes in our plant in Spreitenbach. However, weather-related influences such as heat, drought, or excessive rain can lead to the quantity of domestically produced potatoes being below our needs. On average, around 90% of the potatoes come from one of our 300 Swiss farms.

WHAT DOES A POTATO CONSIST OF? 78% water, 2% protein, 17% carbohydrates, 2% fiber, 0.1% fat, 0.9% others, Energy content: 81 kcal/100g, Particularly rich in: Potassium, Magnesium, Iron, B vitamins & Vitamin C

SINCE WHEN DOES THE COMPANY ZWEIFEL POMY-CHIPS AG EXIST? The company was founded in 1958 and is 100% family-owned.

HOW MANY EMPLOYEES DOES ZWEIFEL HAVE? About 400 chip experts are responsible for the production, marketing, and sale of the best chips.

WHERE IS THE PRODUCTION SITE, WHERE IS THE HEADQUARTERS? Zweifel Pomy-Chips AG produces its well-known chips and snacks in Spreitenbach (AG), where the headquarters is also located.

WHAT IS THE ZWEIFEL FRISCH-SERVICE? The idea of the Zweifel Frisch-Service originated in the early 60s: back then, ten people drove VW buses in the region to deliver fresh chips. Today, about 150 Frisch-Service employees are on the road every day nationwide to supply about 16,000 points of sale in retail, gastronomy, and the impulse market (gas stations, kiosks, etc.) with fresh chips and snacks from twelve distribution centers.

HOW MANY CHIPS AND SNACKS ARE CONSUMED ON AVERAGE PER YEAR? The chips and snacks consumption in Switzerland is about 1.5 kg per capita per year.

WHAT ARE THE MOST POPULAR ZWEIFEL CHIPS? The Zweifel Original Paprika Chips is the most popular and best-selling product, manufactured by Zweifel since 1964. The seasoning is a secret recipe.

HOW MANY PRODUCTS DOES ZWEIFEL PRODUCE? Zweifel has over 50 chip and snack varieties in its range.

HOW MANY CHIPS ARE PRODUCED PER YEAR? Approximately 8300 tons of chips and 1150 tons of salty snacks are produced per year.

HOW MANY POTATOES ARE NEEDED FOR CHIP PRODUCTION? About 3.5 kg of potatoes are needed for 1 kg of chips.

HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE TO PRODUCE A BAG OF CHIPS? It takes just 30 minutes from raw potatoes to finished chips.

WHAT DOES THE NAME AND THE PLACE AT THE TOP RIGHT OF THE CHIPS PACKAGE MEAN? In the spirit of transparency and trust, each chips package lists the farmers whose potatoes were used for the package content.

WHAT RAW MATERIALS ARE NEEDED FOR CHIP PRODUCTION? Potatoes, HOLL rapeseed oil, spices.

WHERE DO THE RAW MATERIALS COME FROM? Zweifel also stands for Switzerland in terms of raw materials. The potatoes come, whenever possible, from Swiss cultivation. Only in poor harvests do we resort to foreign potatoes. Since 2018, chips and snacks have been produced with Swiss HOLL rapeseed oil. Zweifel sources the Swiss Alpine salt from Saline de Bex (VD).

WHAT IS THE ANNUAL TURNOVER OF ZWEIFEL POMY-CHIPS AG? In 2021, the annual turnover was CHF 277.9 million.

WHAT DOES SUSTAINABILITY MEAN TO ZWEIFEL? Zweifel takes the topic seriously towards society and the environment. Sustainability in dealing with employees, customers, consumers, and the environment is therefore one of the six defined and lived company values. Zweifel considers the interplay of social, economic, and ecological sustainability as a whole and continually invests in sustainability.

SWISS POTATOES: The origin and regionality of our raw materials have always been of great importance to us. Whenever possible, we process Swiss potatoes in our plant. A reserve of 10% is even factored into the cultivation plan for this purpose. On average, we process over 90% domestic potatoes from over 300 Swiss farms. Weather-related influences such as heat, drought, or excessive rain mean that we cannot always rely 100% on Swiss potatoes despite everything.

BEST QUALITY: We pay special attention to the careful selection of partners and suppliers who deliver high-quality raw materials to us. Our potato procurement expert is in constant contact with our producers to ensure that the harvest meets our high quality standards.

OUR FARMERS: The map of Switzerland shows all the farmers who harvest their fine potatoes for us. The potatoes from the farmers highlighted in orange are being processed into Zweifel chips in the Spreitenbach production today.

OTHERS SAY POTATO. WE SAY FIGARO AND LADY CLAIRE. Not all potatoes are the same – for the production of our chips, we need so-called processing potatoes with special variety characteristics such as high starch content and low content of reducing sugars. These properties are essential for frying at high temperatures and ensure the crispiness of the chips.

PURE, NATURAL SWISS RAPESEED OIL: We source HOLL rapeseed oil from the Swiss family business Florin AG. HOLL stands for "High Oleic Low Linolenic" and is characterized by a high content of oleic acid - a monounsaturated and therefore easily heatable fatty acid - and a reduced content of linoleic acid. The cultivation areas of HOLL rapeseed extend from Lake Geneva through the Jura to Lake Constance. While the rapeseed fields bloom from April to May, the rapeseed with the black seeds is only harvested in July.

SWISS ALPINE SALT: We also rely on Swiss origin for salt and source our salt from Saline de Bex in the canton of Vaud. We refine our chips and snacks with Swiss Alpine salt. The salt mine in Bex can be visited.
