Zweifel Pomy-Chips AG - Knowledge Database

Company Information
Founding Year: 1958
Ownership: 100% family-owned
Number of Employees: 400
Headquarters: Spreitenbach (AG)
Production Site: Spreitenbach (AG)
Annual Revenue 2021: CHF 277.9 million

Products and Raw Materials
Potatoes: Sourced from over 300 Swiss farms
Rapeseed Oil: HOLL rapeseed oil (High Oleic Low Linolenic) from Florin AG, Switzerland
Salt: Swiss Alpine salt from Saline de Bex, Vaud

Potato Varieties
SH C 1010: Most important storage variety, high yield
LADY ROSETTA: Early ripening, high starch content
PIROL: Ideal for processing in autumn and winter
SORENTINA: Highly storable, late ripening, high starch content
LADY CLAIRE: Good storability, optimal frying quality
THALESSA: Good storability, high starch content, sensitive to drought

Manufacturing Process
1. Planning of cultivation areas: Spring of the previous year
2. Cultivation of cover crops: Summer of the previous year
3. Variety definition and cultivation contract: October of the previous year
4. Delivery of seed potatoes: November of the previous year
5. Sprouting of seed potatoes: March
6. Planting of potatoes: April
7. Formation of ridges: May
8. Early potato harvest: June
9. Destruction of potato foliage: End of August
10. Main potato harvest: Mid-September to October
11. Storage of potatoes: October
12. Daily processing: November to June of the following year

Quality Control and Processing
Daily delivery: Up to 150 tons of potatoes
Control: Starch content, slice thickness for crispiness
Peeling: Depending on the variety
Frying: 3-4 minutes at high temperature
Seasoning: Directly after frying for optimal adhesion
Packaging: Up to 80 bags per minute, origin labeling of potatoes

Sustainability
Swiss potatoes: Over 90% from Swiss farms
Environmentally friendly raw materials: HOLL rapeseed oil, Swiss Alpine salt
Sustainability commitment: Investments in social, economic, and ecological sustainability

FAQs
Air in the bag: Protects chips from breaking
Foreign potatoes: Only used during poor harvests in Switzerland, about 10% reserve planned
Nutritional values of a potato: 78% water, 2% protein, 17% carbohydrates, 2% dietary fiber, 0.1% fat, 0.9% other, 81 kcal/100g
Most popular chips: Zweifel Original Paprika Chips since 1964
Production volume: 8300 tons of chips and 1150 tons of savory snacks per year
Raw materials: Potatoes, HOLL rapeseed oil, spices
